.TH JOHAB2SYLLABLES 1 "30 July 2023"
.SH NAME
johab2syllables \- Convert Unifont Johab 6/3/1 file to Hangul Syllables
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBjohab2syllables \-i\fP \fIhangul-base.hex \fP
\fB\-o\fP \fIhangul-syllables.hex\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B johab2syllables
generates the modern Hangul Syllables Unicode range, U+AC00..U+D7A3,
from an input Unifont .hex file encoded in Johab 6/3/1 format.  This
program demonstrates how to use functions in the unihangul-support.c
file to map a Hangul Syllables code point to the choseong, jungseong,
and jongseong Hangul Jamo that comprise each syllable.
.PP
This program is specifically designed to generate the Unicode
Hangul Syllables range only, and does \fInot\fP shift final consonants
(jongseong) if the vowel contains two long vertical strokes.
For a more general program that uses the entire Hangul Jamo
modern, ancient, and extended ancient ranges of U+1100..U+11FF,
U+A960..U+A97F, and U+D7B0..D7FF, and which \fIdoes\fP shift
jongseong right one column for vowels with two long vertical
strokes on the right, see
.BR unigen-hangul (1).
That program is  used to generate the distributed Unifont
Hangul Syllables range.
.RS
.IP \fBRange\fP 15
\fBHangul\fP
.TP
.BR 1100-1112
Modern initial consonants (choseong)
.TP
.BR 1161-1175
Modern medial vowels and diphthongs (jungseong)
.TP
.BR 11A8-11C2
Modern final consonants (jongseong).
.RE
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.RS
.IP \fBOption\fP 15
\fBFunction\fP
.TP
\fB\-h, \-\-help\fP
Print a help message and exit.
.TP
\fB\-i\fP \fIinput_file\fP
Unifont hangul-base.hex formatted input file.
.TP
\fB\-o\fP \fIoutput_file\fP
Unifont .hex format output file.
.RE
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP 5
.RS
johab2syllables -i hangul-base.hex -o hangul-syllables.hex
.PP
johab2syllables < hangul-base.hex > hangul-syllables.hex
.RE
.SH FILES
Unifont .hex files in Johab 6/3/1 encoding.  See
.BR unifont-johab631 (5)
for a description of the input file structure.  This program
uses functions contained in the file unihangul-support.c.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR bdfimplode (1),
.BR hex2bdf (1),
.BR hex2otf (1),
.BR hex2sfd (1),
.BR hexbraille (1),
.BR hexdraw (1),
.BR hexkinya (1),
.BR hexmerge (1),
.BR johab2ucs2 (1),
.BR unibdf2hex (1),
.BR unibmp2hex (1),
.BR unibmpbump (1),
.BR unicoverage (1),
.BR unidup (1),
.BR unifont (5),
.BR unifont-johab631 (5),
.BR unifont-viewer (1),
.BR unifont1per (1),
.BR unifontchojung (1),
.BR unifontksx (1),
.BR unifontpic (1),
.BR unigen-hangul (1),
.BR unigencircles (1),
.BR unigenwidth (1),
.BR unihex2bmp (1),
.BR unihex2png (1),
.BR unihexfill (1),
.BR unihexgen (1),
.BR unihexpose (1),
.BR unihexrotate (1),
.BR unijohab2html (1),
.BR unipagecount (1),
.BR unipng2hex (1)
.SH AUTHOR
.B johab2syllables
was written by Paul Hardy.
.SH LICENSE
.B johab2syllables
is Copyright \(co 2023 Paul Hardy.
.PP
This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.
.SH BUGS
No known bugs exist.
