.TH UNIFONT-JOHAB631 5 "30 July 2023"
.SH NAME
unifont-johab631 \- Unifont Johab 6/3/1 file format
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBhangul-base.hex\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
This document describes the structure of the Unifont Johab 6/3/1
file format used as input to Hangul syllable generation programs.
Currently, three programs in the Unifont package utilize files in
this format:
.BR unigen-hangul (1),
.BR johab2html (1),
and
.BR johab2syllabes (1).
The easiest way to visualize the two-dimensional organization
of all these Hangul letter variations is by examining the
HTML output of
.BR johab2html (1)
in a web browser.
.BR 
.PP
The "hangul-base.hex" file distributed with Unifont begins at
hexadecimal code point 0xE000, which is the start of the Uniocde
Plane 0 Private Use Area (PUA).
.PP
The Johab 6/3/1 file format is divided into these ranges, in
hexadecimal:
.RS
.IP \fBRange\fP 12
\fBHangul\fP
.TP
.BR E000
Blank (filler) glyph.
.TP
.BR E001\-E2FA
Initial consonants (choseong), 6 variations each for the Unicode
Hangul Jamo choseong range of U+1100..U+115E and then the Unicode
Jamo Extended-A choseong range of U+A960..U+A97C.
.TP
.BR E2FB\-E420
Vowels and diphthongs (jungseong), 3 variations each for the Unicode
Hangul Jamo jungseong range of U+1161..U+11A7 and then the Unicode
Jamo Extended-B jungseong range of U+D7B0..U+D7C6.
.TP
.BR E421\-E479
Final consonants (jongseong), 1 variation each for the Unicode
Hangul Jamo jongseong range of U+11A8..U+11FF and then the Unicode
Jamo Extended-B jongseong range of U+D7CB..U+D7FB.
.TP
.BR E500\-E5FF
Individual Hangul Jamo letters, 1 variation each for the
Unicode Hangul Jamo range of U+1100..U+11FF.
.TP
.BR E600\-E61F
Individual Hangul Jamo Extended-A letters, 1 variation each for the
Unicode Hangul Jamo Extended-A range of U+A960..U+A97F.
.TP
.BR E620\-E66F
Individual Hangul Jamo Extended-B letters, 1 variation each for the
Unicode Hangul Jamo Extended-B range of U+D7B0..D7FF.
.RE
.PP
This johab scheme is much easier to use than the original Unifont
10/3 or 4/4 johab encoding.  That original format was adopted from Hanterm.
.SS "FILLER GLYPH"
The first glyph in the file is a filler, with hexadecimal
values of 64 zeroes.  This is used as a filler for Hangul syllable
combinations that do not contain one or two of the three parts of
a Hangul syllable.
.SS CHOSEONG
These are the initial consonants in a syllable.
Each choseong has six variations:
.PP
.RS
.TP 2
\(bu
Combination with a vertical vowel
.TP
\(bu
Combination with a horizontal vowel
.TP
\(bu
Combination with a vertical plus horizontal diphthong
.TP
\(bu
Combination with a vertical vowel and final consonant
.TP
\(bu
Combination with a horizontal vowel and final consonant
.TP
\(bu
Combination with a vertical plus horizontal diphthong,
and a final consonant.
.RE
.PP
All six variations are created in order for the first consonant
(U+1100, HANGUL CHOSEONG KIYEOK) in the file entries E001\-E006,
then all six for the second consonant (U+1101, HANGUL CHOSEONG
SSANGKIYEOK) in the file entries E007\-E00C, etc.
.SS JUNGSEONG
These are the medial vowels and diphthongs in a syllable.
Each jungseong has three variations:
.PP
.RS
.TP 2
\(bu
With initial consonant but no final consonant
.TP
\(bu
With initial consonant and final consonant, except final consonant neiun
.TP
\(bu
With intial consonant, and with final consonant nieun.
.RE
.PP
Similarly as with choseong, all three variations are created in order
for the first vowel (U+1161, HANGUL JUNGSEONG A) in the file entries
E2FB\-E2FD, then all three for the second vowel (U+1162, HANGUL
JUNGSEONG AE), etc.
.SS JONGSEONG
These are the final consonants.  Each has only one variation.  The program
.BR unigen-hangul (1)
additionally shifts these final consonants one column to the right
when the vowel in the syllable has two long vertical strokes along
the right edge, as in U+1162 (HANGUL JUNGSEONG AE).
The other two programs in the Unifont package that form syllables,
.BR johab2syllables (1)
and
.BR unijohab2html (1),
overlay all jongseong exactly as they are encoded, with no shifting
or extending.
.SS "HANGUL JAMO"
The entire Unicode Hangul Jamo range, U+1100..U+11FF,
appears in entries E500\-E5FF.
.SS "HANGUL EXTENDED-A JAMO"
The Hangul Jamo Extended-A range, U+A960..U+A97F in E600\-E61F.
.SS "HANGUL EXTENDED-B JAMO"
The Hangul Jamo Extended-B range, U+D7B0..U+D7FF in E620\-E66F.
.SH FILES
Unifont .hex files in Johab 6/3/1 encoding.
Programs wishing to interact with this johab encoding can
use functions contained in the file unihangul-support.c.
The programs
.BR johab2syllables (1),
.BR unigen-hangul (1),
and
.BR unijohab2html (1)
all use various functions in unihangul-support.c to generate
their output.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR bdfimplode (1),
.BR hex2bdf (1),
.BR hex2otf (1),
.BR hex2sfd (1),
.BR hexbraille (1),
.BR hexdraw (1),
.BR hexkinya (1),
.BR hexmerge (1),
.BR johab2syllables (1),
.BR johab2ucs2 (1),
.BR unibdf2hex (1),
.BR unibmp2hex (1),
.BR unibmpbump (1),
.BR unicoverage (1),
.BR unidup (1),
.BR unifont (5),
.BR unifont-viewer (1),
.BR unifont1per (1),
.BR unifontchojung (1),
.BR unifontksx (1),
.BR unifontpic (1),
.BR unigen-hangul (1),
.BR unigencircles (1),
.BR unigenwidth (1),
.BR unihex2bmp (1),
.BR unihex2png (1),
.BR unihexfill (1),
.BR unihexgen (1),
.BR unihexpose (1),
.BR unihexrotate (1),
.BR unijohab2html (1),
.BR unipagecount (1),
.BR unipng2hex (1)
.SH AUTHOR
.B Ho-Seok Ee
created the original Johab 6/2/1 format and drew the modern Hangul
letters.
.B Paul Hardy
drew the ancient vowels and suggested adding a third vowel variation,
for combining with final consonant (jongseong) niuen, resulting in a
Johab 6/3/1 encoding.  Ho-Seok Ee suggested shifting final consonants
one position to the right for combination with vowels having two long
vertical strokes on the right edge of a syllable.
.B Minseo Lee
provided feedback on letter design details.
.SH LICENSE
The hangul-base.hex johab glyphs are Copyright \(co 2023 Ho-Seok Ee
and Paul Hardy.  Some Hangul Jamo ancient glyphs are Copyright \(co 2023
Minseo Lee.
.PP
This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.
.SH BUGS
No known bugs exist.
