.TH UNIGEN-HANGUL 1 "30 July 2023"
.SH NAME
unigen-hangul \- Generate Hangul syllables from a Johab 6/3/1 Unifont hex file
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBunigen-hangul \-i\fP \fIhangul-base.hex \fP
\fB\-o\fP \fIhangul-syllables.hex\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B unigen-hangul
generates Hangul syllables from an input Unifont .hex file encoded
in Johab 6/3/1 format.  By default, the output is the Unicode Hangul
Syllables range, U+AC00..U+D7A3.  Options allow the user to specify
a starting code point for the output Unifont .hex file, and ranges
in hexadecimal of the starting and ending Hangul Jamo code points:
.RS
.IP \fBRange\fP 15
\fBHangul\fP
.TP
.BR 1100\-115E
Hangul Jamo initial consonants (choseong)
.TP
.BR A960\-A97C
Hangul Jamo Extended-A initial consonants (choseong)
.TP
.BR 1161\-11A7
Hangul Jamo medial vowels and diphthongs (jungseong)
.TP
.BR D7B0\-D7C6
Hangul Jamo Extended-B medial vowels and diphthongs (jungseong)
.TP
.BR 11A8\-11FF
Hangul Jamo final consonants (jongseong).
.TP
.BR D7CB\-D7FB
Hangul Jamo Extended-B final consonants (jongseong).
.RE
.PP
A single code point or 0 to omit can be specified instead of a range.
A starting code point of one position before a valid starting range
for a Hangul jamo series (choseong, jungseong, and/or jongseong) will
first use a blank glyph for that jamo, and then cycle through remaining
valid code points for the respective choseong, jungseong, or jongseong.
A range can span modern and ancient, and even Hangul Jamo Extended-A
and Hangul Jamo Extended-B ranges.
.PP
For example,
.PP
.RS
.TP
-j3 11A7\-D7FB
.RE
.PP
Will first use no jongseong (because U+11A7 is one before the start of
Hangul Jamo jongseong code points), then loop through jongseong in the
Hangul Jamo range of U+11A8 through U+11FF, and then loop through
jongseong in the Hangul Jamo Extended-B range of U+D7CB through U+D7FB.
.SH OPTIONS
.RS
.IP \fBOption\fP 15
\fBFunction\fP
.TP
\fB\-h, \-\-help\fP
Print a help message and exit.
.TP
.BR \-all
Generate all Hangul syllables, using all modern and
ancient Hangul in the Unicode range U+1100..U+11FF, assigned
code points in the Extended-A range of U+A960..U+A97C, and
assigned code points in the Extended-B range of U+D7B0..U+D7FF.
\fBWARNING:\fP this will generate over 1,600,000 syllables
in a 115 megabyte Unifont .hex format file.  The default
is to only output the 11,172 modern Hangul syllables.
.TP
\fB-c\fP \fIcode_point\fP
Starting code point in hexadecimal for output file.
.TP
\fB\-j1\fP \fIstart-end\fP
Choseong (jamo 1) start-end range in hexadecimal.
.TP
\fB\-j2\fP \fIstart-end\fP
Jungseong (jamo 2) start-end range in hexadecimal.
.TP
\fB\-j3\fP \fIstart-end\fP
Jongseong (jamo 3) start-end range in hexadecimal.
.TP
\fB\-i\fP \fIinput_file\fP
Unifont hangul-base.hex formatted input file.
.TP
\fB\-o\fP \fIoutput_file\fP
Unifont .hex format output file.
.RE
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP 5
.RS
unigen-hangul -c 1 -j3 11AB-11AB \\
.PP
      -i hangul-base.hex -o nieun-only.hex
.RE
.PP
This command generates Hangul syllables using all modern choseong
and jungseong, and only the jongseong nieun (Unicode code point U+11AB).
The output Unifont .hex file will contain code points starting at 1.
Instead of specifying "-j3 11AB-11AB", simply using "-j3 11AB" will
also suffice.
.PP
This next example is a series of syllable sets suggested by Ho-Seok Ee
for preliminary syllable alignment checking of modern Hangul.
.PP
.RS
.TP 2
\(bu
The first command generates all modern syllables containing no
jongseong (final consonant), starting at Unifont hexadecimal glyph
location 0x1000; selecting a jongseong value that is out of range
(U+1160 in this case) will use a blank filler in place of the jongseong.
.TP
\(bu
The second command generates all modern syllables containing jongseong
Kiyeok (U+11AB), which has a horizontal line extending across the lower
portion of a syllable, starting at Unifont hexadecimal glyph location 0x2000.
.TP
\(bu
The third command generates all modern Hangul syllables containing
jongseong Rieul (U+11AF), starting at Unifont hexadecimal glyph location
0x3000.
.TP
\(bu
The fourth command generates all modern Hangul syllables containing
choseong (initial consonant) Rieul (U+1105), starting at Unifont hexadecimal
glyph location 0x4000.
.RE 
.PP
Here is the command sequence:
.PP
.RS
unigen-hangul -c 1000 -j1 1100-1112 -j2 1161-1175 -j3 1160 \\
.PP
      -i hangul-base.hex  >  hangul-prep.hex
.PP
unigen-hangul -c 2000 -j1 1100-1112 -j2 1161-1175 -j3 11AB \\
.PP
      -i hangul-base.hex  >> hangul-prep.hex
.PP
unigen-hangul -c 3000 -j1 1100-1112 -j2 1161-1175 -j3 11AF \\
.PP
      -i hangul-base.hex  >> hangul-prep.hex
.PP
unigen-hangul -c 4000 -j1 1105 -j2 1161-1175 -j3 11A8-11C2 \\
.PP
      -i hangul-base.hex  >> hangul-prep.hex
.RE
.PP
The resulting .hex file can then be examined with hexdraw,
unihex2bmp, \fIetc.\fP
.SH FILES
Unifont .hex files in Johab 6/3/1 encoding.  See
.BR unifont-johab631 (5)
for a description of the input file structure.  This program
uses functions contained in the file unihangul-support.c.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR bdfimplode (1),
.BR hex2bdf (1),
.BR hex2otf (1),
.BR hex2sfd (1),
.BR hexbraille (1),
.BR hexdraw (1),
.BR hexkinya (1),
.BR hexmerge (1),
.BR johab2syllables (1),
.BR johab2ucs2 (1),
.BR unibdf2hex (1),
.BR unibmp2hex (1),
.BR unibmpbump (1),
.BR unicoverage (1),
.BR unidup (1),
.BR unifont (5),
.BR unifont-johab631 (5),
.BR unifont-viewer (1),
.BR unifont1per (1),
.BR unifontchojung (1),
.BR unifontksx (1),
.BR unifontpic (1),
.BR unigencircles (1),
.BR unigenwidth (1),
.BR unihex2bmp (1),
.BR unihex2png (1),
.BR unihexfill (1),
.BR unihexgen (1),
.BR unihexpose (1),
.BR unihexrotate (1),
.BR unijohab2html (1),
.BR unipagecount (1),
.BR unipng2hex (1)
.SH AUTHOR
.B unigen-hangul
was written by Paul Hardy.
.SH LICENSE
.B unigen-hangul
is Copyright \(co 2023 Paul Hardy.
.PP
This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.
.SH BUGS
No known bugs exist.
