.TH UNIHEXPOSE 1 "2023 Aug 05"
.SH NAME
unihexpose \- Convert a GNU Unifont glyph into column-major format
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBunihexpose \fP< \fIinput-font.hex \fP> \fItransposed-font.hex\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B unihexpose
reads a sorted GNU Unifont .hex file from STDIN and writes a
transposed Unifont .hex file to STDOUT.  The output .hex file
contains glyphs encoded in column major format, with 8 rows per
output column.  This will simplify output of Unifont glyphs on
graphics displays with controller chips designed to autoincrement
across a line of 8 pixel rows, one column at a time.
.PP
The output .hex file contains a Unifont glyph in two halves:
the first half is the first 8 pixels rows, and the second half
the second 8 pixel rows.  The glyphs are 8 or 16 columns wide.
.SH FILES
*.hex GNU Unifont font files
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR bdfimplode (1),
.BR hex2bdf (1),
.BR hex2otf (1),
.BR hex2sfd (1),
.BR hexbraille (1),
.BR hexdraw (1),
.BR hexkinya (1),
.BR hexmerge (1),
.BR johab2syllables (1),
.BR johab2ucs2 (1),
.BR unibdf2hex (1),
.BR unibmp2hex (1),
.BR unibmpbump (1),
.BR unicoverage (1),
.BR unidup (1),
.BR unifont (5),
.BR unifont-johab631 (5),
.BR unifont-viewer (1),
.BR unifont1per (1),
.BR unifontchojung (1),
.BR unifontksx (1),
.BR unifontpic (1),
.BR unigen-hangul (1),
.BR unigencircles (1),
.BR unigenwidth (1),
.BR unihex2bmp (1),
.BR unihex2png (1),
.BR unihexfill (1),
.BR unihexgen (1),
.BR unihexpose (1),
.BR unihexrotate (1),
.BR unijohab2html (1),
.BR unipagecount (1),
.BR unipng2hex (1)
.SH AUTHOR
.B unihexpose
was written by Paul Hardy.
.SH LICENSE
.B hexdraw
is Copyright \(co 2023 Paul Hardy.
.PP
This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.
.SH BUGS
No known bugs exist.
