.TH UNIJOHAB2HTML 1 "30 July 2023"
.SH NAME
unijohab2html \- Show combined Hangul syllable jamo juxtaposition as a web page
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBunijohab2html \-i\fP \fIhangul-base.hex \fP
\fB\-o\fP \fIhangul-syllables.hex\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B unijohab2html
reads glyphs in a Unifont .hex file organized in a Johab 6/3/1 format
(6 choseong variations, 3 jungseong variations, and 1 jongseung variation).
It then produces an HTML output file showing all Hangul letters in a
color-coded output in 16-by-16 cell grids: blue cells show where choseong
glyphs appear; green for jungseong; and red for jongseong.
.PP
Any overlaps are shown with a combination of the colors.   For example,
where one or more choseong (blue) letters overlap jungseong (green),
the associated cell will be blue + green = cyan.  Likewise, jungseong (green)
and jongseong (red) overlaps will appear as green + red = yellow, etc.
There is a color key at the beginning of the HTML table.
.PP
If any overlaps of choseong and jungseong exist, these will then be
output in the HTML file identifying the overlapping letters in a
combined Unifont .txt file format.  From these overlaps, a Hangul
font creator can decide whether the overlap is acceptable or should
be modified.
.PP
If an overlap is with an ancient vowel or diphthong
.RI ( i.e.,
U+1176, HANGUL JUNGSEONG A-O through U+11A7, HANGUL JUNGSEONG O-YAE),
it is marked as an "Ancient Vowel" in this ending list of overlaps.
If a choseong is ancient
.RI ( i.e.,
U+11C3, HANGUL JONGSEONG KIYEOK-RIEUL, through U+11FF,
HANGUL JONGSEONG SSANGNIEUN), it is marked as "Ancient Choseong"
in the output.  Overlapping choseong and jungseong in the Hangul
Jamo Extended-A and Extended-B ranges are listed as "Extended Ancient".
This identification of ancient and extended ancient versus modern
Hangul will allow a font designer to optimize modern Hangul when
weighing design tradeoffs.
.SH OPTIONS
.RS
.IP \fBOption\fP 15
\fBFunction\fP
.TP
\fB\-h, \-\-help\fP
Print a help message and exit.
.TP
\fB\-i\fP \fIinput_file\fP
Unifont hangul-base.hex formatted input file.
.TP
\fB\-m, \-\-modern\fP
Only examine modern Hangul letters.
.TP
\fB\-o\fP \fIoutput_file\fP
HTML output file, viewable in a web browser.
.RE
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP 5
.RS
unijohab2html -i hangul-base.hex -o hangul-overlaps.html
.PP
unijohab2html < hangul-base.hex > hangul-overlaps.html
.RE
.SH FILES
Unifont .hex files in Johab 6/3/1 encoding.  See
.BR unifont-johab631 (5)
for a description of the input file structure.  This program
uses functions contained in the file unihangul-support.c.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR bdfimplode (1),
.BR hex2bdf (1),
.BR hex2otf (1),
.BR hex2sfd (1),
.BR hexbraille (1),
.BR hexdraw (1),
.BR hexkinya (1),
.BR hexmerge (1),
.BR johab2syllables (1),
.BR johab2ucs2 (1),
.BR unibdf2hex (1),
.BR unibmp2hex (1),
.BR unibmpbump (1),
.BR unicoverage (1),
.BR unidup (1),
.BR unifont (5),
.BR unifont-johab631 (5),
.BR unifont-viewer (1),
.BR unifont1per (1),
.BR unifontchojung (1),
.BR unifontksx (1),
.BR unifontpic (1),
.BR unigen-hangul (1),
.BR unigencircles (1),
.BR unigenwidth (1),
.BR unihex2bmp (1),
.BR unihex2png (1),
.BR unihexfill (1),
.BR unihexgen (1),
.BR unihexpose (1),
.BR unihexrotate (1),
.BR unijohab2html (1),
.BR unipagecount (1),
.BR unipng2hex (1)
.SH AUTHOR
.B unijohab2html
was written by Paul Hardy.
.SH LICENSE
.B unijohab2html
is Copyright \(co 2023 Paul Hardy.
.PP
This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.
.SH BUGS
No known bugs exist.
