@comment TROFF INPUT: .TH UNICOVERAGE 1 "2007 Dec 31"

@node unicoverage
@section unicoverage
@c DEBUG: print_menu("@section")

@menu
* unicoverage NAME::
* unicoverage SYNOPSIS::
* unicoverage DESCRIPTION::
* unicoverage OPTIONS::
* unicoverage EXAMPLE::
* unicoverage FILES::
* unicoverage SEE ALSO::
* unicoverage AUTHOR::
* unicoverage LICENSE::
* unicoverage BUGS::

@end menu


@comment TROFF INPUT: .SH NAME

@node unicoverage NAME
@subsection unicoverage NAME
@c DEBUG: print_menu("unicoverage NAME")

unicoverage @minus{} Print coverage of each Unicode Script
@comment TROFF INPUT: .SH SYNOPSIS

@node unicoverage SYNOPSIS
@subsection unicoverage SYNOPSIS
@c DEBUG: print_menu("unicoverage SYNOPSIS")

@b{unicoverage }[@minus{}i@i{input-file}] [@minus{}o@i{output-file}] [@minus{}n]
@comment TROFF INPUT: .SH DESCRIPTION

@node unicoverage DESCRIPTION
@subsection unicoverage DESCRIPTION
@c DEBUG: print_menu("unicoverage DESCRIPTION")

@comment TROFF INPUT: .B unicoverage
@b{unicoverage}
reads a GNU Unifont .hex font and uses data in
@comment TROFF INPUT: .B coverage.dat
@b{coverage.dat}
(which must reside in the current directory).  The output is
the percent coverage of each script listed in the coverage.dat
file.  The Unicode code points in the input .hex file must be
in ascending order.
@comment TROFF INPUT: .SH OPTIONS

@node unicoverage OPTIONS
@subsection unicoverage OPTIONS
@c DEBUG: print_menu("unicoverage OPTIONS")

@comment TROFF INPUT: .TP 12

@c ---------------------------------------------------------------------
@table @code
@item @b{@minus{}i}
Specify the input file. The default is STDIN.
@comment TROFF INPUT: .TP

@item @b{@minus{}n}
Print the number of glyphs in each range instead of a percentage count.
@comment TROFF INPUT: .TP

@item @b{@minus{}o}
Specify the output file. The default is STDOUT.
@comment TROFF INPUT: .SH EXAMPLE

@end table

@c ---------------------------------------------------------------------

@node unicoverage EXAMPLE
@subsection unicoverage EXAMPLE
@c DEBUG: print_menu("unicoverage EXAMPLE")

Sample usage:
@comment TROFF INPUT: .PP

@comment TROFF INPUT: .RS

@c ---------------------------------------------------------------------
@quotation
unicoverage < unifont.hex >coverage.txt
@comment TROFF INPUT: .RE

@end quotation

@c ---------------------------------------------------------------------
@comment TROFF INPUT: .SH FILES

@node unicoverage FILES
@subsection unicoverage FILES
@c DEBUG: print_menu("unicoverage FILES")

coverage.dat, *.hex GNU Unifont files.
@comment TROFF INPUT: .SH SEE ALSO

@node unicoverage SEE ALSO
@subsection unicoverage SEE ALSO
@c DEBUG: print_menu("unicoverage SEE ALSO")

@comment TROFF INPUT: .BR bdfimplode (1),
@b{bdfimplode}@r{(1),}
@comment TROFF INPUT: .BR hex2bdf (1),
@b{hex2bdf}@r{(1),}
@comment TROFF INPUT: .BR hex2otf (1),
@b{hex2otf}@r{(1),}
@comment TROFF INPUT: .BR hex2sfd (1),
@b{hex2sfd}@r{(1),}
@comment TROFF INPUT: .BR hexbraille (1),
@b{hexbraille}@r{(1),}
@comment TROFF INPUT: .BR hexdraw (1),
@b{hexdraw}@r{(1),}
@comment TROFF INPUT: .BR hexkinya (1),
@b{hexkinya}@r{(1),}
@comment TROFF INPUT: .BR hexmerge (1),
@b{hexmerge}@r{(1),}
@comment TROFF INPUT: .BR johab2syllables (1),
@b{johab2syllables}@r{(1),}
@comment TROFF INPUT: .BR johab2ucs2 (1),
@b{johab2ucs2}@r{(1),}
@comment TROFF INPUT: .BR unibdf2hex (1),
@b{unibdf2hex}@r{(1),}
@comment TROFF INPUT: .BR unibmp2hex (1),
@b{unibmp2hex}@r{(1),}
@comment TROFF INPUT: .BR unibmpbump (1),
@b{unibmpbump}@r{(1),}
@comment TROFF INPUT: .BR unidup (1),
@b{unidup}@r{(1),}
@comment TROFF INPUT: .BR unifont (5),
@b{unifont}@r{(5),}
@comment TROFF INPUT: .BR unifont-viewer (1),
@b{unifont-viewer}@r{(1),}
@comment TROFF INPUT: .BR unifont1per (1),
@b{unifont1per}@r{(1),}
@comment TROFF INPUT: .BR unifontchojung (1),
@b{unifontchojung}@r{(1),}
@comment TROFF INPUT: .BR unifontksx (1),
@b{unifontksx}@r{(1),}
@comment TROFF INPUT: .BR unifontpic (1),
@b{unifontpic}@r{(1),}
@comment TROFF INPUT: .BR unigen-hangul (1),
@b{unigen-hangul}@r{(1),}
@comment TROFF INPUT: .BR unigencircles (1),
@b{unigencircles}@r{(1),}
@comment TROFF INPUT: .BR unigenwidth (1),
@b{unigenwidth}@r{(1),}
@comment TROFF INPUT: .BR unihex2bmp (1),
@b{unihex2bmp}@r{(1),}
@comment TROFF INPUT: .BR unihex2png (1),
@b{unihex2png}@r{(1),}
@comment TROFF INPUT: .BR unihexfill (1),
@b{unihexfill}@r{(1),}
@comment TROFF INPUT: .BR unihexgen (1),
@b{unihexgen}@r{(1),}
@comment TROFF INPUT: .BR unihexpose (1),
@b{unihexpose}@r{(1),}
@comment TROFF INPUT: .BR unihexrotate (1),
@b{unihexrotate}@r{(1),}
@comment TROFF INPUT: .BR unijohab2html (1),
@b{unijohab2html}@r{(1),}
@comment TROFF INPUT: .BR unipagecount (1),
@b{unipagecount}@r{(1),}
@comment TROFF INPUT: .BR unipng2hex (1)
@b{unipng2hex}@r{(1)}
@comment TROFF INPUT: .SH AUTHOR

@node unicoverage AUTHOR
@subsection unicoverage AUTHOR
@c DEBUG: print_menu("unicoverage AUTHOR")

@comment TROFF INPUT: .B unicoverage
@b{unicoverage}
was written by Paul Hardy.
@comment TROFF INPUT: .SH LICENSE

@node unicoverage LICENSE
@subsection unicoverage LICENSE
@c DEBUG: print_menu("unicoverage LICENSE")

@comment TROFF INPUT: .B unicoverage
@b{unicoverage}
is Copyright @copyright{} 2007, 2008 Paul Hardy.
@comment TROFF INPUT: .PP

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.
@comment TROFF INPUT: .SH BUGS

@node unicoverage BUGS
@subsection unicoverage BUGS
@c DEBUG: print_menu("unicoverage BUGS")

No known real bugs exist, except that this software does not perform
extensive error checking on its input files.
