@comment TROFF INPUT: .TH UNIPAGECOUNT 1 "2007 Dec 31"

@node unipagecount
@section unipagecount
@c DEBUG: print_menu("@section")

@menu
* unipagecount NAME::
* unipagecount SYNOPSIS::
* unipagecount DESCRIPTION::
* unipagecount OPTIONS::
* unipagecount FILES::
* unipagecount SEE ALSO::
* unipagecount AUTHOR::
* unipagecount LICENSE::
* unipagecount BUGS::

@end menu


@comment TROFF INPUT: .SH NAME

@node unipagecount NAME
@subsection unipagecount NAME
@c DEBUG: print_menu("unipagecount NAME")

unipagecount @minus{} Count the assigned code points in a GNU Unifont .hex file
@comment TROFF INPUT: .SH SYNOPSIS

@node unipagecount SYNOPSIS
@subsection unipagecount SYNOPSIS
@c DEBUG: print_menu("unipagecount SYNOPSIS")

@b{unipagecount }[@minus{}P@i{plane}] [@minus{}p@i{pagenum}] [@minus{}h|@minus{}l]
@comment TROFF INPUT: .SH DESCRIPTION

@node unipagecount DESCRIPTION
@subsection unipagecount DESCRIPTION
@c DEBUG: print_menu("unipagecount DESCRIPTION")

@comment TROFF INPUT: .B unipagecount
@b{unipagecount}
reads a GNU Unifont .hex file from STDIN and prints a 16 by 16 grid of the
number of defined code points in each 256 character block within a Unicode
plane to STDOUT.  Code points proceed from left to right, then top to bottom.
In all planes, code points U+*FFFE and U+*FFFF are not expected in the input
hex file; they are reserved and always counted as being present in a plane.
@comment TROFF INPUT: .SH OPTIONS

@node unipagecount OPTIONS
@subsection unipagecount OPTIONS
@c DEBUG: print_menu("unipagecount OPTIONS")

@comment TROFF INPUT: .TP 6
@comment TROFF INPUT: .BR \-P

@c ---------------------------------------------------------------------
@table @code
@item @b{@minus{}P}
Select a Unicode plane, from 0 through 16, inclusive.  If not specified,
@comment TROFF INPUT: .B unipagecount
@b{unipagecount}
defaults to Plane 0 (the Basic Multilingual Plane).
@comment TROFF INPUT: .TP
@comment TROFF INPUT: .BR \-p

@item @b{@minus{}p}
Just print information on one 256 code point "page" rather than
the entire Basic Multilingual Plane.  This prints a 16 by 16 table with
an asterisk in every code point that has an assigned glyph.
@comment TROFF INPUT: .TP
@comment TROFF INPUT: .BR \-h

@item @b{@minus{}h}
Print an HTML table with color-coded cell background colors
instead of a plain text table.
@comment TROFF INPUT: .TP
@comment TROFF INPUT: .BR \-l

@item @b{@minus{}l}
[The letter "l"]: Print hyperlinks to font bitmaps in the HTML table.
To create the bitmaps themselves, use the
@comment TROFF INPUT: .B unihex2bmp
@b{unihex2bmp}
program.  The bitmaps are assumed to be in the directory "bmp/".
@comment TROFF INPUT: .SH FILES

@end table

@c ---------------------------------------------------------------------

@node unipagecount FILES
@subsection unipagecount FILES
@c DEBUG: print_menu("unipagecount FILES")

*.hex GNU Unifont font files
@comment TROFF INPUT: .SH SEE ALSO

@node unipagecount SEE ALSO
@subsection unipagecount SEE ALSO
@c DEBUG: print_menu("unipagecount SEE ALSO")

@comment TROFF INPUT: .BR bdfimplode (1),
@b{bdfimplode}@r{(1),}
@comment TROFF INPUT: .BR hex2bdf (1),
@b{hex2bdf}@r{(1),}
@comment TROFF INPUT: .BR hex2otf (1),
@b{hex2otf}@r{(1),}
@comment TROFF INPUT: .BR hex2sfd (1),
@b{hex2sfd}@r{(1),}
@comment TROFF INPUT: .BR hexbraille (1),
@b{hexbraille}@r{(1),}
@comment TROFF INPUT: .BR hexdraw (1),
@b{hexdraw}@r{(1),}
@comment TROFF INPUT: .BR hexkinya (1),
@b{hexkinya}@r{(1),}
@comment TROFF INPUT: .BR hexmerge (1),
@b{hexmerge}@r{(1),}
@comment TROFF INPUT: .BR johab2syllables (1),
@b{johab2syllables}@r{(1),}
@comment TROFF INPUT: .BR johab2ucs2 (1),
@b{johab2ucs2}@r{(1),}
@comment TROFF INPUT: .BR unibdf2hex (1),
@b{unibdf2hex}@r{(1),}
@comment TROFF INPUT: .BR unibmp2hex (1),
@b{unibmp2hex}@r{(1),}
@comment TROFF INPUT: .BR unibmpbump (1),
@b{unibmpbump}@r{(1),}
@comment TROFF INPUT: .BR unicoverage (1),
@b{unicoverage}@r{(1),}
@comment TROFF INPUT: .BR unidup (1),
@b{unidup}@r{(1),}
@comment TROFF INPUT: .BR unifont (5),
@b{unifont}@r{(5),}
@comment TROFF INPUT: .BR unifont-viewer (1),
@b{unifont-viewer}@r{(1),}
@comment TROFF INPUT: .BR unifont1per (1),
@b{unifont1per}@r{(1),}
@comment TROFF INPUT: .BR unifontchojung (1),
@b{unifontchojung}@r{(1),}
@comment TROFF INPUT: .BR unifontksx (1),
@b{unifontksx}@r{(1),}
@comment TROFF INPUT: .BR unifontpic (1),
@b{unifontpic}@r{(1),}
@comment TROFF INPUT: .BR unigen-hangul (1),
@b{unigen-hangul}@r{(1),}
@comment TROFF INPUT: .BR unigencircles (1),
@b{unigencircles}@r{(1),}
@comment TROFF INPUT: .BR unigenwidth (1),
@b{unigenwidth}@r{(1),}
@comment TROFF INPUT: .BR unihex2bmp (1),
@b{unihex2bmp}@r{(1),}
@comment TROFF INPUT: .BR unihex2png (1),
@b{unihex2png}@r{(1),}
@comment TROFF INPUT: .BR unihexfill (1),
@b{unihexfill}@r{(1),}
@comment TROFF INPUT: .BR unihexgen (1),
@b{unihexgen}@r{(1),}
@comment TROFF INPUT: .BR unihexpose (1),
@b{unihexpose}@r{(1),}
@comment TROFF INPUT: .BR unihexrotate (1),
@b{unihexrotate}@r{(1),}
@comment TROFF INPUT: .BR unijohab2html (1),
@b{unijohab2html}@r{(1),}
@comment TROFF INPUT: .BR unipng2hex (1)
@b{unipng2hex}@r{(1)}
@comment TROFF INPUT: .SH AUTHOR

@node unipagecount AUTHOR
@subsection unipagecount AUTHOR
@c DEBUG: print_menu("unipagecount AUTHOR")

@comment TROFF INPUT: .B unipagecount
@b{unipagecount}
was written by Paul Hardy.
@comment TROFF INPUT: .SH LICENSE

@node unipagecount LICENSE
@subsection unipagecount LICENSE
@c DEBUG: print_menu("unipagecount LICENSE")

@comment TROFF INPUT: .B unipagecount
@b{unipagecount}
is Copyright @copyright{} 2007, 2014 Paul Hardy.
@comment TROFF INPUT: .PP

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.
@comment TROFF INPUT: .SH BUGS

@node unipagecount BUGS
@subsection unipagecount BUGS
@c DEBUG: print_menu("unipagecount BUGS")

No known real bugs exist, except that this software does not perform
extensive error checking on its input files.  If they're not in the
format of the original GNU Unifont .hex file, all bets are off.
